well it has been three years since
General Motors filed for chapter 11
bankruptcy and for the once-mighty
company rising from the ashes of a
government bailout has included some
severe self-reflection including a
top-secret automotive torture chamber
for the first time GM is giving us a
peek at how they smash or bash a new
model long before any critic can and
ABC's elizabeth lee me is the one to
take us behind the scenes it's like
hazing for cars engineering as an
extreme sport these are the tests the
leaner meaner General Motors is putting
its vehicles through test the public has
never seen before we had unprecedented
access to a GM proving ground one of the
most secretive sites in the automotive
world our tour guide on this wild ride
is james bell GM's new head of consumer
affairs an audacious choice because he
spent years slamming car companies as an
automotive journalist once calling GM's
Cadillacs Cimarron an awful little car
and the Buick LaCrosse a real letdown I
guess you never thought you'd be doing
this job never in a million years after
all GM is the car company that produced
infamous Chevy vagas in the 1970s wobbly
X cars in the 80s mediocre saturn's in
the 90s and just plain ugly Pontiac
Aztecs in the 2000s that's why GM's post
bail out strategy is to improve its
reliability and its reputation with more
and more extreme testing first up wicked
weather every car on the assembly line
indoors the water test booth and when I
push this button the torrent will begin
yes okay here we go
our car disappears as its hell today
Alan's in eight minutes so it's not just
about keeping the passengers drive but
also keeping the engine dry passengers
are almost secondary not surprisingly we
stayed dry GM didn't show us any cars
that might actually fail a test water
falling is one threat water rising is
another we've only been doing this for
the last couple weeks actually this
water trough tests a car's ability to
keep passengers safe in floodwaters it
seems like you're testing not only for
what you want people to do with the cars
but for what they actually will do
that's right it's it's the extremes i
mean the vehicle has to be shown that it
can handle what crazy people do for the
first time ever GM allowed an outsider
to film its climatic wind tunnel at the
test track another first I actually get
to drive they're letting me do this 15
miles per hour oh my god I could do this
for a living oh okay that was worse than
DC where I live next we navigate a ditch
so deep the size is a trade secret the
truck performs well but that's not
always the case despite this extensive
testing the new General Motors has
issued 14 safety recalls so far this
year and Consumer Reports ranks it 12
out of 13 car companies for reliability
some models do very well others not so
much why is that we believe in the
products were developing we believe that
process is certainly improving is it too
little too late uh-huh well I certainly
hope not we recognize the the ills of
our past but
do yourself a favor in comparison the
company's crash test results are far
better than in the past according to the
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety
which has named some General Motors
vehicles top tips for safety GM now
conducts more than 50 different crashes
before releasing a new model we're about
to see how they do it and then GM's look
love because they're crashing a car that
hasn't been released yet this is
obviously very sensitive there's
something that needs to be fixed we want
to make sure that's all done well before
any consumer or any anybody's
considering these brands to know
anything about it hey 50.7 we persuade
them to let us shoot the multi-ton
barrier hurtling toward the car oh oh
gosh just like that a truck is just it
decided what we just saw and heard was a
t-bone crash similar to this one we've
seen a breathtaking series of splashes
and crashes but for the new GM the true
test is whether more people will buy it
bars for Nightline on elizabeth lee me
in Milford Michigan